five so Johnson again this is a begin a
lesson for how to read chord charts if
you're looking up on the on the site you
and you can read it a bit of tab and you
can play a few of the tattoos then what
you do is you move on to chords some of
the songs that I've written up on the
site are in tab and with the chords
written above the stave that we spoke
about if you if you checked out the
readings happen rhythm lesson and some
of them if they're easier to write they
just strum along songs are right now in
what's called chord chart form and this
is the sort of form that you you need to
be able to read particularly if you're
thinking of sitting one of the rgt exams
from preliminary write to grade eight
the chord charts are written out in much
this white so what I want to do is just
show you a couple of little signs on
there and how you go about reading them
and so I'll show you a little close-up
the PDF and then I'll talk you through a
little bit okay so this is a PDF I've
got up on the website this is under the
essential section because these are
quite essential things that you need to
learn what happens here is these letter
names refer to the chords and you can
learn more about that in different
lessons that I've got up on the site
these lines in between are called bar
lines so often you have like four four
or three four tells you how many beats
in a bar but this is just about how to
read the actual chart self so what we've
got there is one bar of G one bar of C
their major chords and then this double
line with a double dot what that means
is repeat so then you've got a bar of a
minor that's what the dilemma stands for
a minor and then a bar of D and the
double line at the end with no double
dot is means the end of that particular
chord sequence so this chord sequence
here sorry I'm going out shot there this
chord sequence here G C double line
double dot a minor D should be played
like this G C back to G C that's the
repeat then a minor D but as you can see
that uses an awful lot more space so
that's why people use the repeats on
because you might be repeating 20 bars
so you have to write out an awful lot of
space and the other thing is these
repeat marks can occur anywhere in a
piece of music
this one here you've got G C double
armed with a double dot that means you
go you you go back you repeat the bit
that's in the double line in between
here the a minor and the D chord so
that's the bit you repeat where the two
dots are facing inwards in the first
example you don't the reason there's no
double dot double line with a double dot
before the G is because that means you
go back to the beginning if there's no
other double line with a double dot in
it you just go back to the beginning so
this sequence here G C a minor D in the
repeat signs CG should be played G C a
minor D a minor D again that's where the
repeat comes in DC g and in the double
line at the end means that you've
finished that particular piece of music
so that's how the some of the songs in
the tab section on the website are
written out if they're not safe there
just strum along songs and also that's
how you would be presented with a chord
chart if you were sitting an electric
guitar great with the rgt anywhere from
preliminary to bright light obviously
isn't there are more complicated signs
as the grades progress but this is more
sort of basic thing that you get a
pulling area great and great one the
double line with a double dot for
repeating so okay I hope you got that
and find it useful and I'll see you
again sometime